h2 Kill chain.

X) Summary of "Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chains"
Cyber Defense Focus: The paper is all about using intelligence to make computer network defenses stronger by understanding how hackers think and operate.

Attacker Campaigns: It talks about how hackers often plan their attacks like campaigns. If we understand these plans, we can better prepare for potential attacks.

Intrusion Kill Chain: The authors introduce a model called the Intrusion Kill Chain. This breaks down the typical steps a hacker takes during an attack, like planning, launching the attack, and achieving their goals. If we can interrupt them at any point, we can stop the attack.

Importance of Intelligence Analysis: They emphasize that looking at past attacks helps organizations make smarter decisions and better defenses for the future.

Using Threat Intelligence: Organizations are encouraged to use threat intelligence—basically, information about potential threats—so they can stay ahead of hackers by learning from past events.

Advice for Organizations: The paper suggests being proactive: using threat intelligence, continuously monitoring their systems, and having a response plan in place based on the kill chain model.

Collaboration and Sharing: The authors stress that sharing information about threats between organizations can make everyone safer and improve overall cybersecurity.
Reference:Hutchins et al 2011: Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chains



Detailed Technical Report: Installing Debian 12 " Bookworm" on VirtualBox (Windows Host).

This report outlines the process to installing Debian 12 "Bookworm" on Virtual Machine. 

Host - Windows
Virtual Version- Version 7.0.20 r163906 (Qt5.15.2)
Debian ISO - debian-live-12.6.0-amd64-xfce.iso

Download source:
Debian ISO - I downloaded Debian 12 ISO from debian-live-12.6.0-amd64-xfce.iso

I opened the VirtualBox in my computer. 

Create virtual Machine. 
Clicked on New to create a new virtual machine.
Name: Entered a suitable name for the virtual machine   (Eg: DebianTeroKarvinenCom)
ISO Image: Selected the downloaded ISO file (debian-live-12.4.0-amd64-xfce.iso).
Type: Set as Linux.
Version: Set as Debian (64-bit).
Skip Unattended Installation:

Unchecked the option for Unattended Installation to proceed with a manual setup.

Hardware Settings
Memory Allocation:

Base Memory: Set to 4096 MB to ensure smooth operation.
Processor Configuration:

CPU: Allocated 2 CPUs to the virtual machine.
Hard Disk Setup:

Selected Create a virtual hard disk now.
File Location: Chosed a suitable directory on my host machine.
Size: Allocated 60 GB for the virtual disk.
Clicked Create to finalize the hard disk setup.

 Start the Virtual Machine and Install Debian
Booting:

I started the virtual machine by double-clicking on it in the VirtualBox Manager.
The VM booted from the Debian ISO, displaying the boot menu.
Selected Live System to boot into a live session of Debian.

Testing Basic Functionality:

After logging in, I opened a web browser and searched for a random topic to ensure that the keyboard, mouse, and network were functioning correctly.

Launching the Installer:

After confirming the live environment worked correctly, I clicked the Install Debian icon on the desktop to begin the installation.

Language and Locale Settings:

Language: Selected American English.
Time Zone: Chose Europe, Helsinki as the time zone.
Keyboard: Selected Finnish Keyboard.
Partitioning the Disk:

Chose the option to Erase Disk and proceeded with default partitioning.
Confirmed the setup and started the installation.
 
User Setup During Debian Installation
User Information:
Entered my full name
chose a login namer
Assigned a computer name
Created a pawwword

After checking the summary
Clicked Install to begin the installation process. This took approximately 10 minutes.

Completion: Once the installation is completed, clicked Done and choose to Restart Now.

 Post-Installation Setup
First Boot:

The installation completed successfully, and I rebooted the virtual machine.
I was greeted with the login screen, where I entered the credentials created during installation.
Testing Basic Functionality:

After logging in, I opened a web browser and searched for a random topic to ensure that the keyboard, mouse, and network were functioning correctly.

b) Voluntary bonus: Update all software on your Linux box using 'apt-get'.

Update All Software:
Opened the terminal: Applications: Terminal Emulator.
 
ran the following commands to update the system
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade
This updated all packages to their latest versions.
This took a while. Should not interrupt the upgrade while it is working and should not close the window before done. 

rebooted after upgraded as the kernel "linux-image" was upgraded. 

I installed firewall and turned it on . 
$ sudo apt-get -y install ufw
$ sudo ufw enable

c) Voluntary bonus: Install a local web server on Linux, 'apache2'.
Reference: https://terokarvinen.com/2008/install-apache-web-server-on-ubuntu-4/

I installed apache 

$ sudo apt-get install apache2


Test it
Surf to your own server on your own local computer:
$ firefox "http://localhost"
This directed to my web browser

d) Voluntary bonus: Download a web page from your local web server - manually, using netcat 'nc'.

reference:https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-make-an-http-get-request-manually-with-netcat/?ref=oin_asr9nc/

I installed netcat to the system 
sudo apt-get install netcat

then I used Wikipedia webpage to download
cat wikipedia.org
after enter manually typed
GET /wiki/Main_Page HTTP/1.1
Host: Wikipedia.org:8080
Connection: close

the wepage downloaded 

e) Voluntary bonus: Find a log line created by your manual web page download in previous task.
reference: https://www.loggly.com/use-cases/how-to-monitor-your-apache-logs/

OpenAI. (2024). ChatGPT (GPT-4). 



first i used 
/var/log/apache2/access.log command. but the access was denied, then used the below command
sudo tail -n 10 /var/log/apache2/access.log

f) Voluntary bonus: ATT&CK. Compare MITRE ATT&CK framework to Cyber Kill Chain.
Cyber kill chain framework for understadnign and preventing s=cyber attacks.. It breakdown the process into seven phases. 
-Reconnaissance
-Weaponisation
-DElivery
-Exploitation
-Installation
-command
-ACTION control
-action on objectives
By understanding these phases, security
professionals can develop effective mitigation strategies to protect from attack.


MITRE ATT&CK is a framework, developed by a non-profit organisation MITRE in 2013, to consider each stage of the cyberattack lifecycle from the perspective of the
attacker. It is a globally accessible knowledge base of adversary Tactics, Techniques,
and Procedures (TTP) based on real-world observations. The ATTaCK knowledge
base is used as a foundation for the development of specific threat models and
methodologies in the private sector, in government, and in the cybersecurity product
and service community.

Level of Detail:

MITRE ATT&CK provides a more granular approach, with a detailed catalog of techniques and tactics. This allows for precise threat modeling and defense strategies.
Cyber Kill Chain outlines broader phases of an attack, making it easier to conceptualize the overall attack lifecycle.
Application:

The ATT&CK framework is widely used for threat hunting, incident response, and defensive measures based on observed techniques.
The Kill Chain is often used for developing security postures and proactive measures to prevent attacks by disrupting them at various stages.
Adaptability:

The ATT&CK framework is continuously updated with new tactics and techniques based on current threat landscapes.
The Kill Chain is more static and may not account for the evolving nature of cyber threats.

reference:https://www.obriain.com/training/otsec2/odt/Topic_2-Cyber_Kill_Chain-MITRE_ATT&CK_for_ICS_odt.pdf







